DOCSP-42323: Replace (#62)
mongodb/docs-scala: source/write/replace.txt

.. _scala-write-replace:

=================
Replace Documents
=================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: modify, change, code example

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+driver-short+} to perform a **replace
operation** on a document in a MongoDB collection. A replace operation
removes all fields and values from a specified document except the
``_id`` field, and adds new fields and values that you specify. This
operations differs from an update operation, which changes only
specified fields in one or more documents.

To learn more about update operations, see the

> :ref:`scala-write-update` guide.

Author: Broken link, this page will be created in an upcoming PR

database from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. To access this collection
from your Scala application, create a ``MongoClient`` that connects to an Atlas cluster
and assign the following value to your ``database`` and ``collection`` variables:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/replace.scala
    :language: scala
    :dedent:
    :start-after: start-db-coll
    :end-before: end-db-coll

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:atlas:`Get Started with Atlas </getting-started>` guide.

Replace Operation
-----------------

You can perform a replace operation in MongoDB by using the
``replaceOne()`` method. This method removes all fields except the
``_id`` field from the first document that matches the specified query filter. It
then adds the fields and values you specify to the empty document.

Required Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You must pass the following parameters to the ``replaceOne()`` method:

- **Query filter**, which matches which documents to update. To learn
  more about query filters, see the :ref:`scala-specify-query`

>   guide.

Author: Broken link, this page will be created in an upcoming PR

- **Replacement document**, which specifies the fields and values that
  you want to replace the existing fields and values with.

Replace One Document
--------------------

The following example uses the ``replaceOne()`` method to replace the
fields and values of a document in which the value of the ``name`` field
is ``"Primola Restaurant"``:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/write/replace.scala
      :start-after: start-replace-one
      :end-before: end-replace-one
      :language: scala
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :language: console
      :visible: false

      Replaced document count: 1
      Completed

.. important::

   The values of ``_id`` fields are immutable. If your replacement
   document specifies a value for the ``_id`` field, it must be the same
   as the ``_id`` value of the existing document or the driver raises a
   ``WriteError``.

Customize the Replace Operation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The ``replaceOne()`` method optionally accepts
> a parameter that sets options to configure the replace operation.
> If you don't specify any options, the driver performs the replace
> operation with default settings.
> 
> The following table describes the setter methods that you can use to
> configure an ``ReplaceOptions`` instance:

Reviewer: S: I would mention the name of the parameter in the first paragraph so it's clear what the table is for. Would also avoid both "configure the replace operation" and "configure a ``ReplaceOptions`` instance. Maybe something similar to this:

```suggestion
The ``replaceOne()`` method optionally accepts
a parameter with the ``ReplaceOptions`` data type. The ``ReplaceOptions``
class contains setter methods that you can use to configure the replace operation.
If you don't specify any options, the driver performs the replace
operation with default settings.

The following table describes the setter methods in the ``ReplaceOptions``
class:
```

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Description

   * - ``upsert()``
     - | Specifies whether the replace operation performs an upsert operation if no 
         documents match the query filter. For more information, see :manual:`upsert
         behavior </reference/method/db.collection.replaceOne/#upsert>`
         in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

>        | Defaults to ``false``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       | Defaults to ``false``.
```

   * - ``bypassDocumentValidation()``
     - | Specifies whether the update operation bypasses document validation. This lets you 
         update documents that don't meet the schema validation requirements, if any 
         exist. For more information about schema validation, see :manual:`Schema

>          Validation </core/schema-validation/#schema-validation>` in the MongoDB
>          Server manual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         Validation </core/schema-validation/#schema-validation>` in the {+mdb-server+} manual.
```

       | Defaults to ``false``.

   * - ``collation()``

>      - | Specifies the kind of language collation to use when sorting

Reviewer: S:

```suggestion
     - | Specifies the collation to use when sorting
```

         in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

   * - ``let()``
     - | Provides a map of parameter names and values to set top-level
         variables for the operation. Values must be constant or closed
         expressions that don't reference document fields.

   * - ``comment()``
     - | Sets a comment to attach to the operation.

The following code sets the ``upsert`` option to ``true``, which instructs the
driver to insert a new document that has the fields and values specified
in the replacement document if the query filter doesn't match any
existing documents:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/write/replace.scala
      :start-after: start-replace-options
      :end-before: end-replace-options
      :language: scala
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :language: console
      :visible: false

      Replaced document count: 1
      Completed

Return Value
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``replaceOne()`` method returns an ``UpdateResult`` 
object. You can use the following methods to access information from
an ``UpdateResult`` instance:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Description

   * - ``getMatchedCount()``

>      - | Returns the number of documents that matched the query filter, regardless of
>          how many updates were performed.

Reviewer: S:

```suggestion
     - | Returns the number of documents that matched the query filter.
```

   * - ``getModifiedCount()``
     - | Returns the number of documents modified by the update operation. If an updated
         document is identical to the original, it is not included in this
         count.
         
   * - ``wasAcknowledged()``
     - | Returns ``true`` if the server acknowledged the result.

   * - ``getUpsertedId()``

>      - | Returns the ``_id`` value of the document that was upserted
>          in the database, if the driver performed an upsert.

Reviewer: S: active voice

```suggestion
     - | Returns the ``_id`` value of the document that the driver upserted
         into the database, if any.
```
